JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
My attitude toward Syria and
Assad has changed
very much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As the death toll
in Syria's
chemical attack rises, President
Trump appears
to take a harder line against
the Assad regime.
Then: a closer look at the FBI's
investigation
into 2016 presidential
election-related links
to Russia, and what they mean
for the new
administration.
And how ticks on rampant deer
populations
are contributing to the spread
of Lyme disease,
and leaving communities with few
options to
combat a growing ecological
threat.
SAM TELFORD, Tufts University:
If I were to
be here 20 years ago at the
check station,
at this check station, I could
look all day
and maybe find two or three
ticks.
Now, in the course of two hours,
we have gotten
probably 50 ticks off a deer.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: This week's
chemical attack
in Northern Syria has now
claimed 75 lives,
and it may trigger a shift in
U.S. policy.
The president today voiced his
outrage and
threatened a tougher approach.
John Yang begins our coverage.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
These heinous actions by the
Assad regime
cannot be tolerated.
JOHN YANG: At a Rose Garden news
conference
with King Abdullah of Jordan,
President Trump
condemned the attack as an
affront to humanity.
DONALD TRUMP: When you kill
innocent children,
innocent babies, babies, little
babies, with
a chemical gas that is so
lethal, and people
were shocked to hear what gas it
was, that
crosses many, many lines, beyond
a red lines,
many, many lines.
And I will tell you, it's
already happened,
that my attitude toward Syria
and Assad has
changed very much.
JOHN YANG: Administration
officials had been
saying that removing Syrian
President Bashar
al-Assad was no longer a
fundamental option.
But, today, Mr. Trump didn't
seem to rule
anything out.
Last year, you seemed to be
reluctant to get
involved or to intervene in
Syria directly.
Is that one thing that's changed
after yesterday?
DONALD TRUMP: Militarily, I
don't like to
say where I'm going and what I'm
doing.
I'm not saying I'm doing
anything, one way
or the other.
JOHN YANG: The U.N. Security
Council held
an emergency session, but took
no action.
U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley
warned that the
United States will act if no one
else does.
NIKKI HALEY, U.S. Ambassador to
the United
Nations: When the United Nations
consistently
fails in its duty to act
collectively, there
are times in the life of states
that we are
compelled to take our own
action.
JOHN YANG: The Syrians continued
to deny they
launch any chemical attack, and
its ally Russia
called the reports fake
information.
Haley charged that Moscow
especially has made
an unconscionable choice.
NIKKI HALEY: They chose to close
their eyes
to the barbarity.
They defied the conscience of
the world.
How many more children have to
die before
Russia cares?
JOHN YANG: Meanwhile, victims of
the attack
continued to pour into hospitals
in Syria's
Idlib province and in nearby
Turkey.
WOMAN (through translator):
There was a lot
of smoke, and there was a smell.
It was very difficult to breath.
We couldn't breathe anymore.
We just couldn't breathe
anymore.
JOHN YANG: The World Health
Organization said
the symptoms are consistent with
a nerve agent.
Doctors Without Borders said it
could have
been sarin, the same agent used
in a deadly
2013 attack outside Damascus.
Both today and yesterday,
President Trump
was highly critical of Barack
Obama, saying
that he failed to deal with
Assad by backing
off the threat of military
force.
Now President Trump says the
responsibility
of dealing with Assad is his --
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you, John,
at the White
House.
And in the day's other news:
President Trump
removed his chief strategist,
Steve Bannon,
from his position on the
National Security
Council.
The appointment of the former
head of Breitbart
News after the inauguration had
drawn criticism.
Today, Bannon said his job was
to -- quote
-- "de-operationalize the NSC"
after the Obama
years.
He said the new national
security adviser,
H.R. McMaster, has returned the
council to
its proper function.
The president now says former
National Security
Adviser Susan Rice may have
committed a crime.
It has been reported that Rice
sought and
leaked identities of Trump
transition aides
caught up in surveillance.
She denies any wrongdoing.
But the president told The New
York Times
that he thinks Rice broke the
law.
He provided no evidence.
He also defended FOX News' Bill
O'Reilly against
allegations of sexual
harassment, and said
-- quote -- "I don't think Bill
did anything
wrong."
North Korea test-fired another
missile early
today, and U.S. defense
officials say it ended
in a fiery crash at sea, this
one day before
President Trump and China's
president meet.
It also followed Mr. Trump's
warning that
-- quote -- "If China is not
going to solve
North Korea, we will."
The Chinese Foreign Ministry had
this response
today to the North's latest
launch:
HUA CHUNYING, Spokeswoman,
Chinese Ministry
of Foreign Affairs (through
translator): China
has noticed the relevant report.
We believe that under the
current situation,
all relevant parties should
maintain restraint
and not do anything that will
add to tensions
in the region.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The U.S. response
came from
Secretary of State Rex
Tillerson.
In a terse statement, he said:
"The United
States has spoken enough about
North Korea.
We have no further comment."
In Iraq, Islamic State attackers
killed at
least 31 people overnight in the
northern
city of Tikrit.
The militants wore police
uniforms and targeted
police forces.
When they ran out of bullets,
they blew themselves
up.
More than 40 people were
wounded.
Lawmakers in Malaysia today
approved a law
on sex crimes against children,
but balked
at banning child marriage.
During the debate, one
legislator declared
that girls as young as 9 are --
quote -- "physically
and spiritually ready to marry."
The mostly-Muslim nation allows
girls younger
than 16 to marry if their
parents and Islamic
courts permit it.
Back in this country, Secretary
of Homeland
Security John Kelly softened his
stance today
on separating parents and
children who cross
the border from Mexico
illegally.
He had said previously that he
was considering
that step as a deterrent, but at
a Senate
hearing today, North Dakota
Democrat Heidi
Heitkamp pressed Kelly on the
issue.
SEN.
HEIDI HEITKAMP (D), North
Dakota: There's
been reports that you're
considering separating
mothers and children at the
border?
JOHN KELLY, U.S. Homeland
Security Secretary:
Only if the situation at that
point in time
requires it, you know, if the
mother is sick
or addicted to drugs or
whatever.
SEN.
HEIDI HEITKAMP: So if you
thought the child
was in danger, that's the only
circumstance
in which you would separate?
JOHN KELLY: Can't imagine doing
it otherwise.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Kelly also
reported that apprehensions
at the border fell sharply in
March, to the
lowest number in 17 years.
And on Wall Street today, the
Dow Jones industrial
average lost 41 points to close
at 20648.
The Nasdaq fell 34, and the S&P
500 slipped
seven.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
President
Trump's next possible moves in
Syria; how
the FBI has historically handled
politically
charged cases such as the Russia
investigation;
senators debate the Supreme
Court nominee;
and much more.
As we reported earlier,
President Trump said
that the chemical weapons attack
yesterday
in Syria has crossed many lines
for him.
But what options could the
president pursue
in the six-year civil war?
I'm joined now by two experts
with deep experience
in military strategy and
planning.
Andrew Exum was a deputy
assistant secretary
of defense for Middle East
policy in the Obama
administration.
He's now a contributing editor
at "The Atlantic"
magazine.
And Kori Schake, she was the
director for
defense strategy at the National
Security
Council during the George W.
Bush administration.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
Kori Schake, to you first.
When the president said today --
it was a
striking comment.
He said what happened with this
chemical attack
this week had caused him to
completely rethink
his attitude towards Syria,
toward President
Assad.
For those of you who know, who
have been watching
Syria, watching Assad, should
this have been
such a shocking move?
KORI SCHAKE, Stanford University
Hoover Institute:
It shouldn't have been such a
big surprise,
because there have been dozens
and dozens
of chemical weapons attacks by
the Syrian
government against its own
population.
Still, it's a welcome
development that the
president is paying attention to
the war crimes
that are being committed by the
Assad regime
and by their supporters in Iran
and in Russia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Andrew Exum, when
you left
the Defense Department just a
few months ago,
were you and others aware that
the Assad regime
still had this capability of
using banned
chemical weapons?
ANDREW EXUM, Former U.S. Deputy
Assistant
Secretary of Defense: Well, we
were certainly
worried about the deployment of
chemical weapons
across Syria by all parties,
frankly, by the
Islamic State as well.
So it was a concern.
I think the diplomatic efforts
in 2013 accomplished
a lot, but it certainly appears
as if the
Assad regime kept the remainder
of those weapons
back and is employing them
today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does that square
with your
understanding, Kori Schake?
And I guess my question is, the
administration
has been saying that they were
not prepared
to go in to Syria to remove
President Assad.
Those are the signals we have
been getting.
So, if they were to change that
approach,
that would be a significant
change, wouldn't
it?
KORI SCHAKE: It would be a
significant change.
And the president's comments
today certainly
sound 180 degrees out from his
policy, stated
just two days ago by Secretary
of State Tillerson,
that they supported keeping the
Assad regime
in power.
I don't think that's changed,
though.
My guess is that what they are
likely to do
is retaliate with punitive
strikes.
I think the long shadow of the
Iraq War is
that they are going to want to
leave Assad
in place because they're fearful
of the squalor
of regime change, but that they
are going
to try and constrain his
behavior by penalizing
him for the kinds of actions
that the Syrian
government undertook against its
own population
today -- yesterday.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Andrew Exum,
we're obviously
in speculation territory here,
because we
don't know what the Trump
administration is
going to do.
ANDREW EXUM: Sure.
Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But if there was
a decision
to follow through on what the
president said
today, when he said I have got
-- I have changed
my mind about my attitude toward
President
Assad, what could they do?
What conceivably could they do?
ANDREW EXUM: Yes.
Well, the president, first off,
strikes me
as somebody who listens to the
last person
that he spoke with, and is
probably just as
shocked viscerally by the images
that he saw
on television as all Americans
and people
worldwide.
I think, after he gathers his
team -- I actually
disagree with Kori here.
I think he's likely not to act,
for a couple
different reasons.
First off, he has got to ask,
what are his
priorities?
And I think this president has
communicated
his priority is the fight
against the Islamic
State.
If he were to strike the Assad
regime, it's
worth bearing in mind that, for
the past two
years, the U.S. aircraft and
coalition aircraft
have flown through a pretty
robust integrated
air and defense system over
Syria without
being harassed.
If they were to strike the Assad
regime, they
could then interfere with the
U.S. campaign
against Raqqa, against the
Islamic State elsewhere.
Additionally, you have got to
ask yourself,
how willing are you to kill some
Russians?
Because, especially since the
fall of 2015,
when you have seen a lot more
Russians in
Syria, if you strike any site in
Syria, you
may end up killing some Russian
advisers.
And I wonder if that's a risk
the Trump administration
is prepared to take.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about these
arguments,
Kori Schake?
Could these be reasons why this
administration
is going to think twice, think
three times
or more before they were to take
any aggressive
steps against Assad?
KORI SCHAKE: Yes, I think Andrew
is right.
I think those are both sensible
concerns to
have.
My guess though, is that the
more thoughtful
people in the Trump
administration, after
the president's comments today,
are going
to be looking for ways to
penalize the Assad
regime without triggering either
of those
problems.
Deconflicting the activity with
the Russians
is certainly a possibility.
I do think they will continue to
leave Assad
in place because they're
thinking about, what
happens after the defeat of the
Islamic State?
And they don't want to take on
the responsibility
for governing Syria.
But I do think there are options
available
to them, especially if you can
find ways to
target Assad forces that were
involved particularly
in the attack against civilians
and the follow-up
destruction of hospitals that
was undertaken.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean
specifically this
attack that took place this
week?
KORI SCHAKE: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, I wanted to
ask you to
expand on what you mean.
I mean, what are the options, if
they're going
to take limited steps, if you
will, in response?
KORI SCHAKE: Yes, it looks to me
like their
general strategy for fighting
the Islamic
State is to step up the pace of
operations,
to increase arming and training
of the Free
Syrian forces, to coordinate
much more closely
with the Saudis, the UAE, the
Israelis.
They seem to be having some
problems still
bringing Turkey into effect.
But given that they are
tightening the noose
around ISIS, that will give them
much greater
leverage for dealing with the
Assad regime
subsequently, because Assad's
justification
right now is that he is
protecting Syria against
terrorists.
If you take that excuse away
from him, it
actually gives them a lot more
leverage for
reining in Assad's behavior.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are these the
kinds of steps,
Andrew Exum, that President
Assad, his regime
would see as a kind of
punishment or retaliation
for what they have done?
ANDREW EXUM: I think if you take
-- end up
taking direct strikes against,
for instance,
chemical weapons facilities,
places where
you know that chemical weapons
may be manufactured
or stored, I think they would
certainly see
that as punitive.
They would get that message.
I'm still not sure that the
Trump administration
is going to want to be able to
-- is going
to want to do that.
I think I disagree with Kori
just a little
bit in terms of, I'm not sure we
actually
gain leverage by defeating the
Islamic State.
I actually think that, once you
get past Raqqa,
the need to coordinate even more
with the
Russians, perhaps even with the
regime, grows
more important as you get closer
to Deir el-Zour,
where the regime actually has a
pretty strong
toehold and where I think the
Islamic State
is going to go after they flee
Raqqa.
So, unfortunately, I see a bit
of a contradiction
between the fight against the
Islamic State
and the desire to remove the
Assad regime.
And even if you work with
Russia, I'm just
not sold that working with
Russia is an effective
way to hasten the end of the
Assad regime
or to enact any type of punitive
measures.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just about
half-a-minute.
Kori Schake, do you want to
respond to that?
KORI SCHAKE: Well, I agree with
much of what
Andrew says.
I think deconfliction with the
Russians is
probably the maximum that we can
do.
But deconfliction is enough to
prevent us
killing Russian soldiers when we
are attacking
the Assad regime.
And I think there's so much more
that can
and should be done, because this
isn't just
a problem internal to Syria,
terrible as that
is.
But the norm against chemical
weapons use
is extraordinarily important
internationally.
I agree with Andrew that the
president's all
over the map on this, and I
don't think that's
going to change.
I don't think administration
policy is going
to smooth out over time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Kori Schake,
Andrew Exum, thank
you both.
ANDREW EXUM: Sure thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We turn next to
the American
investigations into Russia, its
meddling in
the 2016 election, and whether
Trump associates
were involved in at all.
The congressional probes have
been the focus
of late.
But the federal bureau of
investigation is
looking into the matter as well,
putting that
bureau under scrutiny again for
its handling
of yet another politically
sensitive case.
William Brangham begins there.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: He leads the
country's most
prominent law enforcement
agency, the FBI,
making Director James Comey the
very public
face of a bureau suddenly in the
spotlight.
JAMES COMEY, FBI Director: And
that includes
investigating the nature of any
links between
individuals associated with the
Trump campaign
and the Russian government.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It's not
standard procedure
to reveal, let alone publicly
discuss, an
ongoing FBI investigation, but
last July,
Comey also came forward to
discuss a politically
sensitive probe that he said was
wrapping
up.
It was the bureau's
investigation into Hillary
Clinton's e-mail practices when
she was secretary
of state.
JAMES COMEY: I want to tell you
what we did,
I want to tell you what we
found, and I want
to tell you what we're
recommending to the
Department of Justice.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: That
recommendation?
Not to bring criminal charges, a
decision
panned by some top Republicans,
like House
Speaker Paul Ryan, who said the
recommendation
defied explanation.
Then, there was also his
revelation about
a week-and-a-half before the
election, this
letter from Comey to Congress
saying the bureau
had subsequently learned about
e-mails that
may have been pertinent to the
Clinton probe.
Former Attorney General Eric
Holder criticized
this revelation.
So did other former Justice
Department officials
from both parties.
And even today, a Justice
Department watchdog
is reviewing whether Comey's
public statements
on the Clinton case flouted FBI
or DOJ policy.
For his part, Comey is defending
his, and
the bureau's, handling of these
politically
sensitive matters, as he did
last week.
JAMES COMEY: I know that, when I
make a hard
decision, a storm is going to
follow.
But, honestly, I don't care.
If we ever start to think about
who will be
affected in what way by our
decisions in a
political sense, we're done.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As for the
ongoing probe
into what role the Russians
played in our
election, and whether members of
the Trump
campaign participated in that
meddling, Comey
told Congress he had no sense
how much longer
that may take.
For a deeper dive into just how
the FBI handles
these kinds of investigations,
I'm joined
now by Stephanie Douglas.
She's a 23-year veteran of the
FBI, where
she specialized in national
security and
counterintelligence.
And John Carlin, he ran the
National Security
Division of the Department of
Justice under
President Obama.
Welcome to you both.
Stephanie Douglas, I would like
to start with
you first.
I wonder if you would just take
on -- before
we get to the investigation,
take on this
criticism of Comey.
There are a lot of Democrats who
are very
upset with how the FBI handled
the Hillary
Clinton e-mail investigation.
What would you say to those
critics?
STEPHANIE DOUGLAS, Former FBI
Official: Well,
I think -- you know, I have
never worked with
Director Comey personally, but I
have a great
deal of respect for him.
And I think, at the end of the
day, the director
felt like he was making the best
decision
he could, given the
circumstances.
I think he considered it a very
sensitive
matter that he felt that the
U.S. public had
a right to know and understand.
And I think, based on that, he
made a decision
to come forward with the
disclosures.
I do think that, given that, it
has put the
FBI in the middle of a political
firestorm,
which is an uncomfortable place
to be.
But I think, at the end of the
day, the director
is very -- he didn't make this
decision hastily,
and I think he believes that he
did the right
thing.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: John Carlin,
is there anything
you would add to that?
JOHN CARLIN, Former Justice
Department Official:
Well, I think it's important
right now to
take stock of where we are and
what the national
security threat is.
And I thought what was stunning,
and has not
been receiving the attention
that it deserves,
was the director of the FBI's
statement at
a congressional hearing last
week and the
head of the National Security
Agency, and
what they said was, not only did
Russia attempt
to undermine confidence in the
integrity of
our election, in this election
cycle, not
only did they do that, but
they're going to
do it again.
They said that it is their
assessment that
the Russians believe it's a
success, and they're
going to come back at us in
2020, perhaps
as soon as 2018, and that
they're going to
take similar efforts undermining
democracy
in Europe, European elections
that are upcoming
shortly.
So the problem is urgent.
And I hope that we can start
focusing on what
we can do to prevent them from
being successful
in those attempts.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Stephanie
Douglas, you heard
what John is just saying there.
The current FBI investigation
seems to be
a two-pronged one, what meddling
did the Russians
do in our prior election and
whether the Trump
campaign had any collusion in
that activity.
What is the goal here?
Is it disruption?
Is it putting people in
handcuffs?
I mean, what's the end goal
here?
STEPHANIE DOUGLAS: Well, the FBI
has been
doing counterintelligence
investigations for
decades.
And it's a part of their core
mission and
it's part of one of their most
significant
priorities.
So the purpose of
counterintelligence
investigations
is to provide intelligence to
policy-makers
and to other intelligence
community partners,
so we are better educated to
make decisions
relative to policy.
As you said, there are two parts
of this investigation.
It will not be a surprise to
Russia that there's
a counterintelligence
investigation into their
intelligence activities ongoing
within the
United States.
But there's also, as part of
that investigation,
an attempt to understand the
roles and the
relationships of U.S. persons
with the Russian
intelligence service, and if
there was anything
inappropriate as part of those
relationships.
So, the bureau has a big job
ahead of itself
to fully vet out and to put the
pieces together
in any logical investigation to
make sure
the facts are clear.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: John Carlin,
how -- investigating
the president of the United
States, who is
ostensibly the boss of the FBI,
has got to
be an incredibly fraught
political thing to
do.
How does the agency, how does
the bureau insulate
itself from that kind of
pressure?
JOHN CARLIN: Well, I have had
the privilege
of working with some of the
professionals,
both at the FBI and the career
prosecutors
who are at the Department of
Justice that
handle this highly specialized
type of investigation.
And one thing that assures me
and that I can
assure others, having worked
with them, is
these are people that they don't
care about
politics.
They often are not even tracking
what's going
on in the political world.
But they're trained
investigators who believe
-- swear an oath to protect our
Constitution,
recognize the threats that
they're facing
from abroad from people who
fundamentally
do not share our values, and
work day in and
day out to protect us from those
threats.
They're going to follow the
facts and evidence
where they lead under the law,
and then make
a decision if there were
criminal charges
to bring, that's based on
longstanding Justice
precedent.
Those are the prosecutors.
So, when -- if the target of the
investigation
were to be the president, there
are protocols
-- and I'm not saying that it
is, but that
there are protocols in place at
the Department
of Justice to ensure that,
ultimately, the
career prosecutors' decisions,
the investigative
steps of the career agents are
respected,
and the investigation is allowed
to proceed.
And one thing I have absolutely
no doubt is
that Director Comey will do what
he needs
to do to preserve the integrity
of those investigations,
and that the career officials at
the National
Security Division and in U.S.
attorney's offices
will similarly not allow
political interference
with their investigation.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Stephanie
Douglas, we have
seen a lot of controversy, a lot
of attacks
on the intelligence agencies
recently.
Are you confident that this
investigation
can get to the bottom of this
issue and that
those findings, when they're
presented, will
be accepted by the public?
STEPHANIE DOUGLAS: Yes.
And I just want to echo what
John was just
saying.
You know, the men and the women
of the FBI
do sensitive investigations
every day.
Not many of them come to light
or are briefed
as publicly as this one has
been.
But they have very strict
protocols.
They understand the rule of law.
They're very process-oriented in
how they
go about a very methodical
investigation.
They gather evidence in
conformance with the
law.
They do interviews.
They take advantage of
investigative tools
that are made available to them.
And the only thing that will
enhance this
investigation is the fact that
it will be
even more highly scrutinized
because of the
potential impact of it.
So, I have -- I have very firm
confidence
that the FBI is up to this task.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Stephanie Douglas,
John Carlin, thank you both very
much.
STEPHANIE DOUGLAS: Thank you.
JOHN CARLIN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": an
uptick in
ticks and the diseases they
carry.
But first: Are auto insurance
companies treating
drivers of color differently by
charging them
more money?
A new analysis finds that is the
case in a
number of states.
Hari Sreenivasan has the latest
in our Race
Matters series.
He's in New York.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Consumer
groups have long
contended that drivers in
predominantly minority
neighborhoods are charged more
for insurance
premiums than drivers in
predominantly white
neighborhoods.
Insurers had said that was due
to a higher
risk of accidents in those
communities.
But a new analysis by ProPublica
and Consumers
Union found the disparities in
premiums are
higher, sometimes much higher,
even when the
risk of an accident is
essentially the same.
The team looked at data and more
than 100,000
premiums in four states,
California, Texas,
Illinois and Missouri.
Julia Angwin of the ProPublica
team joins
me now.
So, what did you do?
What did you find?
JULIA ANGWIN, ProPublica: So,
what we did
was, we basically tried to take
a predominantly
minority neighborhood and a
non-minority neighborhood
with the exact same insurance
risk.
And that is measured by how much
insurance
have had to pay out in claims.
And we looked at the prices of
the premiums
in those neighborhoods and said,
are they
the same?
And, oftentimes, what we found
was, despite
the fact that the payouts were
the same and
we had the same safe driver,
that the minority
neighborhood was being charged
quite a bit
more.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, when we
say the payouts,
that means the amount of money
that insurance
has paid in those communities
for whatever
accidents might have been
happened.
JULIA ANGWIN: Right.
Over a five-year period, all
insurers have
paid, on average, this amount
per car.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And what is
the underlying
reason for this?
JULIA ANGWIN: Well, I don't know
actually
why this disparity is taking
place, but what
the -- what we -- it raises the
question about
whether this pricing is fair,
because insurance
is supposed to be based on risk,
and that's
what the industry has always
said.
But when you look at the risk
that they truly
bear, which is the cost that
they have to
pay out for claims, you see
these price disparities
that can't be explained by that
risk.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is there
enough information
out there to be able to make
this assessment?
JULIA ANGWIN: We were
hard-pressed to get
this data.
We only got data from four
states.
We requested it from all 50
Only four said they collected it
and would
release it to us.
And so we could only do this
analysis there.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And these four
states, are
they representative of a
cross-section?
Because different states have
different types
of insurance rules, obviously
of driving conditions.
JULIA ANGWIN: Yes, they do.
So, basically, we have a nice
range, because
California is considered one of
the most regulated
states for insurance.
The industries have to submit
their rates
to the regulators before they
can issue them.
Illinois, the least regulated,
they don't
have to submit their rates to
anybody for
approval before they issue them,
and it's
considered a very competitive
target.
And then we have two states in
the middle,
Missouri and Texas, with kind of
basic level
of regulation that is considered
normal in
the industry.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK.
We spoke to James Lynch of the
insurance industry,
and this is what he had to say.
JAMES LYNCH, Insurance
Information Institute:
They kind of started off on the
wrong foot,
actually.
In fact, I kind of feel sorry
for them, because
they spent a good year-plus, as
I understand
it, putting this study together.
But what they failed to do was,
they failed
to take into account that people
in different
neighborhoods drive differently.
And because that's the case, you
have to compare
those drives with a set of
drivers on the
premium side that drive
differently.
So, they really aren't comparing
like to like.
They're not making an
apples-to-apples comparison.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But a
30-year-old driver
woman that is a safe driver
across zip codes,
across state lines, why is that
not a fair
comparison?
JAMES LYNCH: Well, when they do
that, what
they are saying is that the only
reason rates
vary from one territory to
another is because
of the territory itself.
But the truth is that, in any
neighborhood,
some drivers are driving more
miles than others.
Some drivers are getting in more
accidents
than people in other
neighborhoods.
And you need to take that into
account when
you're setting rates.
And, as far as we can tell, they
haven't done
that.
And we have actually hired a
firm to peer-review
their work, and it looks like
they're coming
to a very similar conclusion to
ours.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is there any
reasoning that
you can come up with for why
these disparities
exist from zip code to zip code?
JAMES LYNCH: Well, as I said, if
you took
these on a like-to-like basis,
if you looked
at all of the characteristics of
drivers in
an area, race not being one of
them, because
insurance companies do not ask
questions about
race.
In many places, it's illegal for
them to ask
them about race.
And they go one further.
They just don't ask, because
there's actually
nothing to be gained from the
exercise.
And so what they do ask about
is, they ask
about things like the kind of
car you drive,
the number of miles that you
drive, what your
driving record is.
And then, based upon those
concrete variables,
your rate is set.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, he takes
aim at your
methodology and says the
conclusion is flawed.
JULIA ANGWIN: You know, as of
yet, we have
not heard from anyone about any
errors that
are correctable that we need to
correct in
this, and we're always open to
hearing that.
We approached the industry and
actually lots
of academics and experts to
review our methodology
for months in advance.
And so, as of right now, I don't
have any
corrections to make to it.
And I await the response that
the industry
said they're going to publish
soon.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, the
insurance industry
says, you know, it's not apples
to apples
to compare the same person at
the same age
with the same driving record
because different
people in different communities
drive differently.
There's just a much larger pool
to compare.
JULIA ANGWIN: So, the insurance
industry has
a way of dealing with the
problem you're describing,
which is that they assign
territories different
risk ratings.
And those are what these
insurance quotes
are based on.
So, when we're analyzing the
quotes that they
give to each person, that's
based on their
own assessment of the riskiness
of that neighborhood.
And what we're doing is
comparing that to
the payouts that they made in
that neighborhood.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Why does this
all matter
at the end of the day?
JULIA ANGWIN: Why this matters
is that this
is just one of many areas of
life where you
see minority neighborhoods being
treated disparately.
And there's an explanation out
there that
says, oh, it's because it's so
risky, and,
basically, it's deserved, right?
They're paying higher prices,
but it's because
it's a dangerous neighborhood.
And this just raises the
question, which is,
once again, that the facts don't
support that
analysis.
The facts don't show that these
neighborhoods
are riskier than the ones that
are getting
cheaper prices, in most cases.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Julia Angwin
of ProPublica, thanks for
joining us.
JULIA ANGWIN: Thank you so much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The arrival of
spring is a
most welcome sight to many of
us, but it also
brings a serious health problem,
ticks.
They can lead to Lyme disease in
humans, which
can be a serious chronic
condition.
Many suburban areas are trying
to figure out
just how to deal with an
increasing number
of ticks, which some blame on
the growing
population of deer in the U.S.
Researchers are enlisted in this
battle as
well.
Miles O'Brien has the story for
our weekly
segment on the Leading Edge of
science.
And a warning: Some of the
images in this
story might disturb some
viewers.
MILES O'BRIEN: This English
manor in the woods
near Boston is Denny Swenson and
Wynn (ph)
Swenson's dream house.
When they moved here 10 years
ago, they were
thrilled to see a lot of deer.
DENISE SWENSONMD-BO /,
Massachusetts: And
it was so exciting, because
they're such beautiful
animals.
They seemed harmless.
Wow, we felt like we had
arrived.
MILES O'BRIEN: But, today, she
is a more than
a little wary of the deer.
In fact, she believes
controlling their numbers
is the only practical way to
stem the spread
of Lyme disease.
Humans are infected with Lyme
from tick bites,
and ticks like to feed on deer.
DENISE SWENSON: MD-BO / There's
a trail
there that the deer love.
MILES O'BRIEN: This is deer
country here?
DENISE SWENSON: MD-BO / Yes,
yes.
We have tons of deer.
MILES O'BRIEN: The state says
that there are
about 85 deer per square mile in
the adjacent
7,000-acre Blue Hills
Reservation; 10 per
square mile is considered a
density that could
reduce the spread of Lyme.
Deer were hunted nearly to
extinction a century
ago in the U.S.
Today, thanks to legal
protection and regulated
harvests, the deer herd
nationwide has exploded
to more than 30 million.
This creates a host of problems,
including
more than a million deer-car
collisions each
year in the United States.
Suburbia offers the perfect
habitat for deer
to flourish, no human hunters or
animal predators
and a bounty of food.
DENISE SWENSON: MD-BO / They're
coming all
the way up to the front door to
eat.
They're really hungry, so they
kind of need
the rhododendrons as much as I
do.
MILES O'BRIEN: Yes.
This is kind of like the
drive-through of
a deer, right?
DENISE SWENSON: MD-BO / Yes.
This is the drive-through for
them, yes.
MILES O'BRIEN: Lyme is an
infectious disease
caused by a bacterium
transmitted to humans
by the bite of infected
blacklegged ticks.
Symptoms often begin with a
distinctive bullseye
rash and evolve into various
neurological
problems, including facial
palsy, severe headaches,
muscular aches, and sensitivity
to light.
Without antibiotic treatment,
Lyme disease
can lead to permanent motor,
sensory and cognitive
impairment.
It is the most common tick-borne
disease in
the Northern Hemisphere.
There are an estimated 300,000
cases a year
all across the U.S.
Both Denny and Wynn have had
multiple cases
of Lyme disease.
DENISE SWENSON: MD-BO / Oh, I
will never
forget those headaches.
I will never forget the pain
sort of sweeping
around my body.
I felt like I was being invaded
by some crazy
thing.
MILES O'BRIEN: The more she
asked around,
the more she got scared.
DENISE SWENSON: MD-BO / We did a
neighborhood
survey, and 30 households
responded, and we
found 30 cases of Lyme disease.
MILES O'BRIEN: You basically
have a public
health crisis here.
DENISE SWENSON: MD-BO / Yes,
these are epidemic
level numbers.
MILES O'BRIEN: A former
journalist, Denny
Swenson started researching.
The Lyme disease bacterium lives
inside white-footed
mice, the so-called reservoir.
Ticks that bite the mice become
infected propagators,
or vectors, of Lyme.
She quickly, concluded reducing
the population
of mice, or the ticks
themselves, using chemicals,
is neither practical nor prudent
for the environment.
But what about targeting deer?
SAM TELFORD, Tufts University:
There's no
animal as abundant as deer in
these habitats,
and these ticks do seem to like
deer.
MILES O'BRIEN: Sam Telford is a
professor
of infectious disease and global
health at
Tufts University's Cummings
School of Veterinary
Medicine.
We met at a hunter inspection
station during
deer season in Webster,
Massachusetts, 60
miles southwest of Boston.
SAM TELFORD: Do you mind if I
check for ticks?
If I were to be here 20 years
ago at the check
station, at this check station,
I could look
all day and maybe find two or
three ticks.
Now, in the course of two hours,
we have gotten
probably 50 ticks off a deer.
MILES O'BRIEN: Fortunately for
the deer, they
are not susceptible to Lyme
disease.
Telford's fieldwork might make
you squirm
a little bit.
He harvests thousands of ticks
to study later
in his laboratory.
Lyme is just one of more than a
dozen human
diseases and infections spread
by ticks.
They are, by far, the biggest
disease vector
in the U.S.
Telford showed me a tube filled
with two fully
engorged female deer ticks.
Those are fully fed?
SAM TELFORD: These are fully
fed.
MILES O'BRIEN: That's all blood
in there,
right?
SAM TELFORD: That's the end
result of feeding
for seven days.
Each one of those will lay 2,000
eggs.
MILES O'BRIEN: So even though
mice might be
the Lyme disease bacterium
reservoir, Telford
believes controlling the deer
population is
the key.
SAM TELFORD: If you were trying
to intervene
to try to control the force of
transmission
of the agent of Lyme disease,
what do you
go after, something small or
something that's
far more limited in numbers, but
produce the
ticks?
MILES O'BRIEN: In the late
1980s, he ran an
experiment to test his theory on
a small,
isolated Cape Cod peninsula.
A sharpshooter reduced the deer
population
from about 50 to fewer than
eight.
The numbers of ticks dropped
precipitously,
by 80 percent.
Ever since then, he has tried to
convince
people who live in suburban
communities overrun
by deer to take similar action.
SAM TELFORD: The reality is,
some communities
won't tolerate hunting, and so
there have
to be alternatives.
MILES O'BRIEN: At the National
Institute of
Standards and Technology in
Gaithersburg,
Maryland, they're trying birth
control.
The 600-acre campus is home to
180 deer.
They are everywhere.
ANTHONY DENICOLA, White Buffalo
Inc.: National
Institute of Standards and
Technology: We
have created a monster.
There's no doubt.
And it's just whether or not we
contain it
in a realistic timeline, based
on the growth
of these deer populations and
the ever-increasing
conflicts with people.
MILES O'BRIEN: Wildlife
ecologist Tony DeNicola
runs a nonprofit organization
focused on managing
white-tailed deer herds in
suburban environments.
After they were tranquilized at
NIST, the
deer were surgically sterilized
by veterinarians,
61 does over 10 days.
ANTHONY DENICOLA: Sterilization
has the benefit
of the social support of much of
the public,
eliminates a lot of the
controversy around
lethal programs.
But, as you would expect, it is
far more work
in order to handle these
animals, and you
don't get the immediate
population impact.
MILES O'BRIEN: The Humane
Society of the United
States is a big advocate of
alternatives to
conventional hunting.
That's what they're doing 20
miles north of
New York City in the village of
Hastings-on-Hudson.
KALI PEREIRA, Humane Society:
This is our
third capture season for this
project.
MILES O'BRIEN: Kali Pereira is
the senior
deer program manager at the
Humane Society.
KALI PEREIRA: We're using a
product called
PZP-22 to address population
control in an
urban environment that hunting
is not an option
for.
MILES O'BRIEN: PZP-22 is a birth
control vaccine
that lasts for 22 months.
About 70 females in the herd
here are on this
birth control drug.
It's a first-in-the-nation
experiment that
is a labor-intensive, ongoing
effort.
It requires patience.
KALI PEREIRA: Usually, these
projects take
you a minimum of five to 10
years before you
see true population plateau and
reduction.
MILES O'BRIEN: Slow as the
approach is, it
doesn't draw controversy, which
is what happens
when the state of Massachusetts
allows deer
hunting with shotguns in the
park near the
Swenson house.
In two seasons, they have killed
122 out of
an estimated 850 deer.
Sam Telford says the ideal size
of the Blue
Hills herd is about 100.
But is that a realistic goal?
Stephanie Boyles Griffin is the
senior director
of innovative wildlife
management and services
with the Humane Society.
STEPHANIE BOYLES GRIFFIN, Humane
Society:
Attempting to reduce deer
populations to reduce
the transmission of Lyme disease
has not been
shown to really be effective.
You would have to cull deer
populations so
low, and that's really just not
achievable
in a lot of these urban systems.
MILES O'BRIEN: In Denny
Swenson's neighborhood,
most people are committed to
thinning the
herd, but there is some
ambivalence.
DENISE SWENSON: MD-BO / Killing
them wasn't
my first goal at all, and I'm so
heartbroken
that we have to.
But for the health of the deer
and the health
of the forest and the health of
the people
that visit the forest, we need
to manage this
problem.
MILES O'BRIEN: The explosion of
the deer population
in suburbia and the rapid rise
of Lyme disease
are warning signs of an
ecosystem out of balance.
The hunt for solutions won't be
cheap, easy
or fast.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," Milton,
Massachusetts.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The U.S. Senate
spent all night
and day today debating the
nomination of Judge
Neil Gorsuch to be the next
associate justice
of the Supreme Court.
Lawmakers took turns trading
barbs and discussing
the so-called nuclear option,
which could
change longstanding Senate
rules, so that
confirmation requires only a
majority vote,
instead of the usual 60.
SEN.
BEN CARDIN (D), Maryland: Judge
Gorsuch, to
me, is not mainstream.
He will put corporate interests
above individual
interests.
So, for all those reasons, it
seems appropriate
to me that this is why we have a
60-vote threshold,
to make sure we don't -- that we
don't take
extreme nominees and allow them
to be confirmed
by a partisan vote.
SEN.
JOHN CORNYN (R), Texas: Every
excuse they
have come up with to engage in
this unprecedented
filibuster is completely without
merit.
What they're really upset about
is what happened
on November the 8th.
And I don't believe, if they
will -- if won't
confirm Judge Gorsuch, they will
never vote
to confirm any nominee of this
president,
period.
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY (D), Washington:
Invoking the
nuclear option is a dangerous
path to go down.
Mr. President, I have been in
the majority,
I have been in the minority,
and, either way,
I believe, when it comes to a
lifetime appointment
to the Supreme Court, the Senate
must adhere
to a higher standard and the
60-vote threshold.
If you can't get that many votes
for a Supreme
Court nominee, you don't need to
change the
rules.
You need to change the nominee.
SEN.
JOHN MCCAIN (R), Arizona: I'm
left with no
choice.
I will vote to change the rules
and allow
Judge Gorsuch to be confirmed by
a simple
majority.
I will do so with great
reluctance, not because
I have any doubts that Judge
Gorsuch will
be an excellent justice, but
because of the
further and perhaps irreparable
damage that
it will do the United States
Senate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For more now on
the continuing
fight over the Supreme Court
nominee, the
negotiations between the White
House and Congress
to repeal and replace Obamacare,
and President
Trump's effort to roll back
parts of the Obama
legacy, we turn to Matt Schlapp.
He's chairman of the American
Conservative
Union.
We had hoped to have Karine
Jean-Pierre -- she's
a senior adviser for MoveOn.org
-- join us
as well, but she is stuck in
traffic here
in Washington.
She may join us in progress.
But, meantime, Matt, you and I
are going to
have this conversation.
So, what do you make of the
determination
now of Democrats...
MATT SCHLAPP, Former White House
Director
of Political Affairs: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... that there
are just -- there
are going to be at least three
of them who
vote for Neil Gorsuch, but not
enough to give
him the 60 that he would need.
MATT SCHLAPP: You know, what I'm
struck with
-- obviously, I'm a partisan.
I'm a Republican.
But what I'm struck with is that
Neil Gorsuch
really passed all the gates.
He seemed very steady during his
hearings,
really didn't have a misanswer
throughout
all of that process, has a
stellar record.
But it just shows you, in our
hyperpartisan
age, it's very hard anymore to
get these crossover
votes for Supreme Court nominees
especially,
because the court has kind of
inserted itself
in every major question in
society.
And they are a flash point.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Of course, the
Democrats would
say, well, he didn't answer as
many questions
as we would have liked.
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But I...
MATT SCHLAPP: But they all
admitted that he
did a good job.
They would have liked him to
step in something,
and he really did avoid that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is there anything
else either
the White House, President
Trump, or Judge
Gorsuch could have done, do you
think, to
get Democrats to 60?
Or do you think this was cooked
coming in
because of what happened last
year?
MATT SCHLAPP: I think -- yes, I
think Democrats
are very upset at the treatment
of Merrick
Garland.
They thought he deserved to have
a vote, a
hearing and a vote.
And, of course, Republicans saw
this Supreme
Court opening, this kind of
really important
swing pick just too close to the
election,
and they wanted to wait.
But I do think Republicans could
cut a deal.
The president could cut some
kind of a deal
to get enough Democrats to come
over.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you mean?
MATT SCHLAPP: Well, he would
have to cut some
deals on future Supreme Court
picks, maybe
watering down the types of picks
he would
like to make.
And I think, for Republicans,
that's just
anathema.
They think that Neil Gorsuch
deserves an up-or-down
vote.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean the
Democrats would,
in essence, take his word that
he was going
to follow up with a more
moderate choice?
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes, yes, that's
right.
And I think for -- look, for
Republicans and
for conservatives, that's a
bridge too far.
They believe they won this
election.
They have picked a nominee who
has gotten
huge majorities in the Senate
previously,
who's well-qualified by the
American Bar Association.
So, they really felt like they
put a nominee
up that deserves an up-or-down
vote.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, let's
turn to health
care.
We keep hearing, we keep seeing
that the White
House s trying to get something
resurrected
with House Republicans that will
effectively
repeal and replace Obamacare,
the Affordable
Care Act.
MATT SCHLAPP: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But they're
struggling.
MATT SCHLAPP: They are.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we saw, just
this afternoon,
Speaker Ryan was seen going into
the White
House again.
MATT SCHLAPP: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Where does that
stand?
And what do you see the
prospects as?
MATT SCHLAPP: Well, I have had
conversations
with the speaker and with the
White House,
and they are trying very hard to
get to a
bill.
You know, just like in every
political party,
we have our hard-core
conservatives, and we
have our more moderate members
that come from
more swing districts.
And they're trying to strike a
balance to
get to the 218.
And they're simply not there.
I think where they want to go on
the bill
is to allow more state opt-outs
of the Obama
mandates, and they're trying to
figure out
if they can get to that 218.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, Karine
Jean-Pierre
has joined us.
I'm so sorry you were stuck in
Washington
traffic.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, Democratic
Strategist:
That's OK.
(CROSSTALK)
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's a whole
different subject.
We're not going to talk about
that right now.
Next time.
But, Karine, on this question of
the Republicans
still trying really hard to come
up with something
where they can get enough votes
to repeal
and replace Obamacare, is this
something that
Democrats are prepared to work
with the White
House in any way?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: No.
The only way that would happen
is Republicans
said, hey, you know what?
We know Obamacare is a place to
start, and
there are some fixes.
Both sides have said that
Obamacare needs
some fixes.
If they were to come to
Democrats and say
let's fix Obamacare.
But if it's repeal and replace,
I don't see
that happening.
And the thing, too, you would
think that Republicans
would have learned from their
mistake, which
was they tried to jam down this
Trumpcare
in 17 days.
And now to come back and say,
hey, you know,
we're going to introduce
something that is
not on paper and, by the end of
the week,
pass it or vote on it, which we
know that's
no longer going to happen,
that's also -- they
haven't learned their lesson.
Obama took 13 months to push ACA
in a public
way.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: And it was
very difficult
for him to do that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Any way to make
this work with
Democratic support?
MATT SCHLAPP: I think you make
very fair points.
I don't think the Democrats are
going to solve
the Republicans' problem.
I think this is a problem that
Republicans
need to solve.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, speaking --
I was going
to say, speaking of rolling back
Obamacare,
there are a number of other
things, to both
of you, that this president is
saying, is
signaling and moving on to roll
back, from
the environment, labor rules...
MATT SCHLAPP: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... Internet
privacy.
You go down the list.
There are several, it seems,
that emerge every
single day.
Matt Schlapp, is this designed
-- we know
the president does believe in
doing this,
but is this designed to shore up
the base?
Is it designed to win over
people in the middle?
I mean, how do you see the
political calculus?
MATT SCHLAPP: You know, I looked
over this
list, executive orders and
congressional review
acts.
And I think, by and large, there
are two themes
of the Trump presidency,
economic growth and
security.
And I think most of these issues
involve that.
I think Donald Trump
understands, if the economy
doesn't get growing and doesn't
-- and we
don't start adding jobs, and
people don't
start feeling better about their
take-home
pay and their economic
situation, his political
standing will be harmed by that.
And I think they want to take
everything they
can off the ability of
businesspeople, entrepreneurs
to invest and grow their
companies.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we have seen,
Karine, in
the last weeks that his approval
rating in
so many of the national polls
has been sliding.
In some, it's down in the 30s.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Who knows, you
know, how long-lasting
that is.
But how do you see this?
Is this something -- if he's
able to do what
Matt says, can he win support?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: But the
problem is, Judy,
is he's rolling back issues,
policies that
are actually very popular.
And we have to remember Donald
Trump didn't
win with the popular -- the
popular vote.
He doesn't have a mandate.
Only 26 percent, 27 percent of
eligible voters
actually voted for Donald Trump.
And it's troubling to see what
he's doing.
And there are people on your
side who are
very concerned by some of the
rollbacks that
he's doing, especially when it
comes to privacy.
And so it's certainly -- it's
certainly a
problem that we should be
concerned about.
And so I just don't see how this
is going
to be popular.
It certainly doesn't show that
he's a president
for everyone.
It's just him doubling down,
tripling down
on his base.
MATT SCHLAPP: Can I simply say,
on these congressional
review acts, of which we have
only seen one
in our history, and to see over
a dozen come
to the president's desk, there's
just a lot
of action here.
And I think, for him
politically, one of the
downsides for him is, there's so
much action,
but also one of the upsides is,
is that we're
not focusing on one because
there are so many.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But also, for
some of these,
there may be folks who like
them, but there
are also folks who don't like
them.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: That's
right.
MATT SCHLAPP: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And he stirs...
MATT SCHLAPP: All that matters
for President
Trump is, he's got to get that
economy humming.
If he doesn't, you know, there's
consequences.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: The funny
thing is, his
favorite poll, Rasmussen, even
shows him down
by 16 points at 43.
MATT SCHLAPP: I don't think it's
his favorite
poll.
(LAUGHTER)
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Well, that's
the one he
keeps focusing on.
So, there's a problem there.
His numbers are softening.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we're glad
the infrastructure
helped get you here today,
Karine Jean-Pierre.
(LAUGHTER)
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so
much, Judy.
And I'm so sorry about that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's all right.
Matt Schlapp.
Thank you both.
MATT SCHLAPP: You know, if we
drain the swamp,
we will have less traffic.
(LAUGHTER)
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Is that
right?
That's the problem.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Thursday, a look at the
rising costs of
protecting President Trump, his
family and
their residences.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.